Add Skeleton modifier design article (#854)
godotengine/godot-website: collections/_article/skeleton-modifier-design.md

categories: ["progress-report"]
author: Silc Renew
image: /storage/blog/covers/PlaceHolder.webp
date: 2024-05-25 00:00:00
---

A new node called `SkeletonModifier3D` will be added in Godot 4.3. It is to animate `Skeleton3D` outside of `AnimationMixer` and is the base class for several existing nodes.

Thus, we add the deprecated flag on some old properties with "override" in `Skeleton3D`.

- `set_bone_global_pose_override()`
- `get_bone_global_pose_override()`
- `get_bone_global_pose_no_override()`
- `clear_bones_global_pose_override()`

# Did the pose override design have problems?

Previously, we recommended using the property `global_pose_override` when modifying the bones. This was useful because the original pose was kept separately, so blend values could be set, and bones could be modified without changing the property in `.tscn` file. However, the more complex people's demands for Godot 3D became, the less it covered the use cases and became outdated.

The main problem is the fact that "the processing order between `Skeleton3D` and `AnimationMixer` is changed depending on the `SceneTree` structure`.

> **For example, it means that the following two scenez will have different results:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**For example, it means that the following two scenes will have different results:**
```

![different process orders](/storage/blog/skeleton-modifier-design/different_process_orders.webp)

> If there is modifier such as IK or physical bone, in most of cases, it needs to be applied to the result of the played animation. So essentially they need to be processed after the `AnimationMixer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is modifier such as IK or physical bone, in most of cases, it needs to be applied to the result of the played animation. So they need to be processed after the `AnimationMixer`.
```

> In old skeleton modifier design with bone pose override, that means that you must place those modifiers below the `AnimationMixer`. However as scene trees become more complex, it becomes difficult to keep track of the processing order. Also the scene might be imported from glTF and cannot edit without localization, then managing node order becomes tedious.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In old skeleton modifier design with bone pose override you must place those modifiers below the `AnimationMixer`. However as scene trees become more complex, it becomes difficult to keep track of the processing order. Also the scene might be imported from glTF and cannot edit without localization, so managing node order becomes tedious.
```
